# Importing packages and using Modules


Unlike many other languages, in python, the file structure becomes part of the structure of your program.

Within python, the organization of your files matters.

# Importing

Notice the sample code we used in our previous pip install example (screen scraping). We use pip to install python packages that we do not already have. Python includes packages, and we may also created our own. In all cases, if we wish to use functionality offered by these packages, we need to include some statement in our code to tell the Python interpreter that some outside code is needed.  We accomplish this task by using the import statement.

```
import time
t0 = time.time()
for i in range(0, 10):
    print(i)
t1 = time.time()
print("The total time to execute this loop was " + str(t1-t0))

```

By contrast, look at the following code.

```
from time import time
t0 = time()
for i in range(0, 10):
    print(i)
t1 = time()
print("The total time to execute this loop was " + str(t1-t0))
```

What is going on here?

In the second case, we imported one specific named object (in this case, a function) into our current namespace. In the first option, we imported the module but kept the namespace for the elements of this module under "time" - as a separate namespace.

Choosing one of the other is typically a matter of your own preferences. Overtime, you may find the need for maintain a separate namespace for the  module your importing rare, and the pain of typing the fully qualified name (t time.time()) tedious. If so, you'll probably resort to using the second form of import more frequently.

# change the reference name of what you're importing.

You can also change the name of the object you are importing. You may want to do this to avoid a name collision (that is, the name of what you're importing is already used in the code into which you are importing the code), or you may wish to use a shorter name that requires less typing.

For whatever reason you may have, rest assured, Python provides a way for your to rename the objects you are importing.

```
from time import time as tmr
t0 = tmr()
for i in range(0, 10):
    print(i)
t1 = tmr()
print("The total time to execute this loop was " + str(t1-t0))
```
