# Python Examples

In many ways, Python is much easier and less verbose than many other programming languages.

Here is an example of simple Java code (also, notice the error! The error here (use of uninitialized variable) is indicative of the problems and care that must be taken with strongly typed languages ):
```
package varstest;

public class VarsTest {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int x;
        int y = 10;

        System.out.println(y);
        System.out.println(x);
    }
}

```

Here is this same example using Python

```
x = None
y = 10
print(y)
print(x)
```

The first thing to note that Python is dynamic, that is, you don't need to declare variable types (but you can provide hints, and cast between different types). In the case of this code, we had to "go out of our way" to try to figure our how to create an uninitialized variable by using None. It's rare to need to do this.

## Phython: Whitespace matters

In Java, it's perfectly acceptable to do the following:

```
int x=1   ;    int y= 2; System.out.print(x);System.out.println(y);
for (int i=1;i<10;i++) { System.out.println("Count is: " + i); }
```
* *NOTE: Past Perl language programmers (and some of those remaining, still do) pride themselves on how esoteric and twisted their code can be. Perl programmers value expression (almost like an artist) - Python sees such things as a waste of time.*

But, we would never write code the way you see this in our example above. Convention dictates certain patterns, subsets of what are possible in the language, that we consider acceptable. These conventions are necessary to make the code easier to read - but, there are variations.

In Python, there is a pragmatic feel or approach to many things. In the case of whitespace, if we always follow a convention of indentation, why not just  include this in the language? This is what Python has done.

In python, a command is terminated by EOL (end of line). Code blocks are represented by indentation.

```
x=1
y=2
print(x, end="")
print(y)
for x in range(1,11):
    print("Count is" + i)
```

Due to Python's use of EOL and indentation, there's no varying social convention guiding code formatting, it's built into the language.

## Finally, hello world

In Java:

```
package helloworld;

public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!");
    }
}

```

In Python:

```
print("Hello World!")
```

I think this says much about what to expect from Python :)
